Welcome back guys.
In this lesson,
I have closed down all those other tabs,
I have closed down my code editor,
and I've closed down my terminal which was running theme watch,
because we're going to learn about Slate in this lesson, okay?
So if you've used Theme Kit before in this course,
and Theme kit is great because it allows us to edit themes on the fly,
and Slate does something similar,
but it also has another element to that,
and that is, it creates a brand new theme for us.
Actually, we can do the same thing in Theme Kit.
I probably mentioned theme,
new as one of the commands for Theme Kit.
It creates a theme that's,
kind of a Stata theme.
So you can't do something similar within Theme Kit.
But if you are very serious about developing a custom Shopify theme,
you're going to want to use Slate,
and Slate is a little bit more complicated.
The folder structure is going to be a bit different
and it takes a little bit more effort to set up.
But that's why it is a bonus lesson in this Shopify course.
I didn't think I could do
a Shopify theme development course without at least talking about Slate.
So, we're going to talk a little bit about Slate,
get it setup on your computer and if you want to know more about it,
you can let me know in the discussion box below, alright?.
So let's just look up Slate now.
So if I go Shopify/slate,
we've already gone through the documentation and looked at, the grid.
There's two links here.
Let me have a look. This is the GitHub repo.
But what I want to look for is the actual website,
for Slate, which is right here.
The information in here is not the best,
especially with getting started,
so I actually recommend you follow along
this class rather than follow the instructions here,
because I actually learned how to get started with Slate through a video,
on Shopify's YouTube channel.
So, if I type in Shopify Slate YouTube video,
maybe it'll come up, yeah.
So right here you can see a video by the Shopify partner' s YouTube account,
and this is actually how I learned to the steps of installing Slate.
So you can also reference this or you can just listen
to me in this lesson right here, okay?
So, first of all,
there's actually a slide in this video,
which talks about the history of Slate,
and it actually comes from Timber,
so remember I mentioned Timber before,
and they have a slide in here to say why it's now Slate.
The timber framework was too opinionated and this is
like a programming word, which means that,
it decided too many things for developers upfront,
so they stripped it back even further and they created, Slate, okay?
So Timber is now Slate,
and slate is actually the starting point that Shopify
themselves use for all their Shopify themes that they develop.
It's also the starting point for a lot of
themes that you'll find on the Theme Store, and in fact,
I've worked with themes before that it developed from the party developers,
not necessarily Shopify, that still use the Slate responsive grid.
It's good to know a little bit of Slate
even if you want to go off and develop in a different way,
chances are you're probably going to use Slate if you want to develop custom themes,
because this is basically what Shopify recommends and what they use themselves.
Like I said, you've got the documentation here,
and of course it's going to be a good reference,
but in terms of installing Slate,
I recommend you just follow along these steps,
which I've found easier than what it says in here.
So the first step is you need the Node package manager for those that don't know,
Node is a JavaScript development environment,
so we look for a Node.
It's technically a JavaScript runtime, okay?.
You don't need to know what that is.
All you need to know is that you need Node and you need Node Package Manager,
in order to start using Slate or installing Slate.
So download and install Node,
then you want to, download and install Node Package Manager,
which is just npm for short,
and I'm not actually going to go through and show you
how to install Node and npm because I already have it on my computer.
You should be able to find
pretty detailed instructions on how to do that on both for their websites,
and lots of articles,
online about it too.
Then, once you've installed Node and Npm,
you're going to look for the package for Slate CLI so I'm going to,
click on the first option here.
You can see this one which isn't the right one,
I don't know what that is.
I think we need to, be a bit more specific and say Shopify Slate,
and as you can see here, we're looking for the one that has @Shopify in front of it,
so maybe I'll just,
type it in as I know,
Shopify, Slate, there we are, exact match.
I don't know why that didn't come up in the search box.
Here you've got Slate CLI and if you're not sure if you're on the right one,
you need to be on the one that says @Shopify/slate, okay?
So this is it, this is the one you need to install and
you have installation instructions right here.
So you're using an npm command to install Shopify Slate and that's why you need npm,
because you need npm installed in order to install this package right here.
Now as I previously mentioned,
I already have Slate installed,
so I don't need to do this,
but let's just say you run that command and now you have Slate installed.
The next thing you're going to want to do is just like we did with theme kit,
navigate to the directory in which you want to start
your new Slate project and then run a particular command.
So I'm going to,
open up my terminal again,
and I'm going to navigate to where I want that to be.
So I'm going to icd,
code/personal/current, and now that I'm in current,
the command I'm going to run is going to be in a Slate documentation so,
it should be a menu item here for commands which there are,
and what we want to do is create a new project with Slate.
So, I doesn't actually have it here which is why.
I feel like the documentation isn't that great.
Maybe it's in here. Slate theme, no.
Okay. Well, that Command that you're looking for is Slate, theme.
Then the name of the theme that you want to create.
I'm going to call it Clean Slate,
came up with that name all by myself,
and it's going to download the slate theme and set it all up for you to use.
This might take a little bit,
so I will catch you at the end of the installation.
Now it is finished downloading slate,
and the reason why it's taken so long to set up
is because it's downloading a bunch of dependencies as well.
If we go into our current folder now,
I've got the Skillshare theme here,
and now you can see in the directory as well I've got clean slate.
I'm going to click on that, and open that up in my Finder Window here,
but what I'm going to do is also change into that directory through here.
Now that I'm in that directory,
I can run Atom dot because I'm running atom,
and I can open that directory,
that project up in my code editor.
All right, so let's contract some of these folders here,
and you can see that the folder structure on the top level is quite different.
We've got this config.ylm file that we need to set up as well,
but as you can see,
we've got a folder at the top with node modules.
This is a long list of dependencies and that's why it took a long time to download,
I think for me it took maybe a minute,
which is pretty considerable time.
Then you've got this src folder,
which inside you should recognize some of the folders.
You've got assets, config, icons,
layout, locales, scripts, sections.
There's a few other ones like styles,
scripts and icons that went in the theme that you developed before,
but this is basically in the src folder,
that's basically your theme where you actually make your changes.
The big difference with slate is we don't actually upload this to your site,
what it does is, compiles all of this and we'll
create a different version of this and then that will go into your theme.
We'll see how that works in just one second.
What we're going to need now however,
is an actual store to run this theme on, and unfortunately,
we already transferred that development store,
so I am going to have to create a new store.
It's not biggy though, I'm going to use the same password and I'm going to call this,
the Slate Skillshare Theme,
if that name is available.
Yes, and I'm going to use the same password as before.
Put in a random address and
then we can say it's for testing an App or a theme, click Save.
This should all be pretty familiar,
we've done this before, it's creating a store.
Now we need to go through a similar process to what we did before.
Now because we are going to create a new theme and we're going to upload it to the store,
we don't need a theme ID,
what we need though is the store name,
which we can find here,
and also the API password.
Like we did earlier in the class,
we need to go into Apps,
Manage Private Apps, Create New Private App.
Sorry, I'm going a little bit faster this time because we have done this before.
I'm going to call it Slate Connection.
Obviously it has to put in an emergency developing e-mail,
and we need to give it the same read,
write access as we did previously to the theme templates and theme assets.
Other than that, we are good to save,
I understand, Create the App.
Now we have two of the ingredients that we need to actually configure slate.
The reason why I need an API password to the store
and the store name is because we're going to run a similar commands,
a theme kit watch,
which is slate watch.
We're doing this ahead of time,
but we don't need it just yet,
what we need to do is actually build our theme and then upload it to the store.
I'm going to right-click here,
so we still have access to our password to reference later,
and In our Commands over here,
you can see the command for build,
and it will build a production ready version of the theme
by compiling the files in the dist folder.
This is stuff that happens behind the scenes with theme kit, but for slate,
it's happening right in front of your eyes and what I mean by that is
you'll soon see that we have our assets,
our styles, broken down into multiple files.
You can see blank states, forms,
the grid, remember with our previous theme,
we had only one css file or scss file that held everything.
Well, slate is a little bit more modular,
it's a little bit more complex,
it's more of a scalable way to make shopify themes
because you're separating out what would be a big css file,
which is what you want when you run it on your actual website,
but in terms of development,
it's nicer to have different folders and different files,
but what you want is all that compiled into css JavaScript in a single file, okay?
So you can see here plenty of different scripts and in our styles,
plenty of different styles.
So one of the things that's going to happen when we run slate build is going to
compile all of that into like one style sheet or one JavaScript file,
and we'll see that happening once we run the build command, so again,
it's just slate tools build,
think actually we can use the word slate without tools,
there we go, that happened pretty fast.
If we go into our code editor now you can see a folder called dist,
and in dist we can see assets and now we can see theme.scss.liquid and theme.js,
which is what we're used to.
So it took all the styles from
all these different style sheets and put them together in this,
and it took all of our scripts and put it together in this, all right?
So that's part of what it's doing when it's compiling.
So this is where we want to develop,
but this is where we want to upload to the store.
So we can actually compress this file,
make it into a zip and then upload it to the store,
but we actually have a command within slate where we can do that automatically.
So I'm going to call slate zip,
and now we have a upload folder with clean slate.zip, okay?
How goods that? All right,
so let's go back into our store and as you see,
it's password protected so we might want to disable password,
but what I'm going to do is click, Upload theme.
I'm going to have click, choose file,
going to go to my directory where I have that zip file,
Upload folder, click on clean slate.zip or whatever you called yours, upload that file.
It's going to start spinning up,
and then I'm going to click "Actions",
"Preview", to see what our theme looks like.
Now this is a Slate Theme.
It is super bare-bones,
pretty much no styling whatsoever,
but it is a fully functioning theme.
So if I wanted to put some products into my store,
I could actually select them,
add it to a cart and buy them,
believe it or not, in this terrible looking store,okay?
Now this is the whole point about Slate and the reason why I
recommend you start from an existing theme,
unless you want to develop your own custom themes
that you may be going to sell on the Shopify platform,
or you have maybe a client or needs that a very particular,
you probably don't want to start from this starting point.
But, for that purpose,
you have Slate here for you to use, okay?
So now you have your Slate theme on your online store,
but just like we did with Theme Kit,
we're going to want to be able to edit that theme through our own computer,
like we have with our code files here, okay?
We don't want to edit it within here for reasons that we previously mentioned, okay?
So just like Theme Kit,
we can either update config.yml file,
so we can go in here and put in the details there,
or we can run the configure command that's quite
similar to our Theme Kit or theme configure.
So again I can't see any documentation on configure,
so let's just do it the other way.
Let's just put it in our actual config file.
So let's find out our store name, which is right here.
Pick that, put that in here.
Theme id, actually let's do password next.
Put the password there,
and then remember how we find the theme id.
We just go into our customizer and then in our customizer,
we can pick it off the URL.
Okay. So now we have our project actually pointing to this theme that we've uploaded.
So now they are essentially configured to connect to each other, okay?
And as you can see,
we can still customize
even this bare-bones theme using our theme customizer section here, okay?
In theme settings, it should be pretty bare, which it is,
because there's not many CSS rules set up,
but that's for us to decide what we want to put into these theme settings, okay?
Now, if we want,
we can run slate deploy,
and any changes that we make locally to our theme,
because we've set up with config.yml to point to this particular theme on
this particular store is going to upload all files and deploy them to our website.
But as we just saw,
all we did was zip the original theme and we've already uploaded,
so right now both versions of our theme,
the one we have on our own computer and the one
on the actual online store should be exactly the same.
So what we can do for detecting local changes is run "Slate Watch".
So I'm going to do that right now, "Slate Watch",
and if our config.yml file is set up correctly,
this should start watching for changes.
Now the difference between Slate and Theme Kit
is it actually creates a local address for us to look at the theme as well.
And there's actually some steps here in
the documentation to create a self-signed SSL certificate,
but this can be kind of cumbersome and annoying to do,
so a way to get around this privacy error is just to say
that you accept it and you're going to proceed to the local host.
All right. So let's close now and we can enter using the password.
So we actually didn't turn off password protection,
so rather than turn it off,
I'm just going to find out what the password is in our preferences.
It gives you a really basic password by default.
I'm going to put that in here to access our theme,
and here you go.
You have the theme,
just like you would by going into your themes here,
and clicking "Preview", we have the same thing,
but on a local address,
which is kind of misleading because we are still running it through
the Shopify platform which is not actually local,
but it creates this little environment here for us,
so at least we know we are working with Slate on the development theme.
So just to conclude its working and that it is actually watching for changes,
let's actually edit something.
So remember we go into the SRC directory to edit our theme,
and let's make a basic change.
So I'm just doing anything to demonstrate.
Let's inspect this element and see what that is,
it is the site logo.
So let's just remove that.
This is probably going to be in the header section,
so I'm going to go into here,
search for a site logo,
here it is, and let's just delete this whole, a tag.
Think I'm going to hit "Save" on that.
Let's have a look at what's going on in our terminal.
You can see here, there's some stuff going on, reloading browsers,
file change is successful,
sync to store and now if we refresh this,
we should see that that site logo,
which was just text,
is now disappeared, and if we bring it back,
hit "Save", it should register that file changes successfully synced to store.
Sorry that's a tongue twister.
And refresh the page.
It's back again, okay?
So I'm not going to go through how you're going to set up this theme to
actually make it look presentable because that would be a course in and of itself,
but this should provide you with a good starting point
to maybe take your Shopify knowledge to the next level.
So by learning how to actually customize this and change
this into a fully functioning theme.
While it is fully functioning,
but I mean it's just terrible user experience.
It just looks terrible.
If you could transform this into a really cool store-front,
then you're really going to know the Shopify platform.
And maybe that's something you want to do.
Maybe you want to create a whole custom store-front.
It's up to you. That's why I put in this little section about Slate at the end.
If you have any questions,
of course leave them in the [LAUGHTER] discussion box below.
Thanks so much for watching guys.
I will see you in the conclusion.